--------------------------------------------------
Jun 7 2011

Cleaned 2-inch SSP wafer (doping unknown, surplus) with presaturated Texwipe (70% IPA / 30% DI
water), air dried. Spin coated with ~0.25 ml of Emulsitone Tantalumfilm.

Adhesion was good but numerous pinholes were observed due to surface contamination. Edges of wafer
were not completely covered, not enough Tantalumfilm was used for a good coating.

Baked wafer in air for 1 hour at 200C. Film evenness appeared to have slightly improved but pinholes
were still present.

Cleaved wafer perpendicular to flat, broke smaller piece parallel to flat and created 7 dies ~2mm
square from resulting piece. Placed in gel box #5, positions A1-A7.

Initial inspection at 10x/30x.
A1: Very uneven coating, some large holes, but a few good areas. Yellow plus some purple rings.
A2: Lots of midsized pinholes. Pink to orange.
A3: Pretty even, lots of medium-small pinholes. Yellow.
A4: A few large holes, some small ones. Deep purple.
A5: One large hole, a few small ones. Even coating. Yellow.
A6: Very even, a few medium-small holes. Yellow.
A7: Extremely uneven (edge of wafer). Larger pinholes. Purple.

Coating appears relatively thick - 150-200nm.

Etched die A2 in 3% HF for 5 minutes at room temperature. No detectable thinning of film.

Etched die A2 in 3% HF for 5 minutes at 50C (water bath). Most of the film was removed, some traces
left in thicker areas. After another 5 minutes all but the thickest spots are gone. More heat is
probably advisable for future etches.

Prepared developer - 550mg NaOH in 50ml distilled water.

Spin coated die A6 in Shipley SP24 photoresist. Exposed 15um half-pitch test pattern for 12 minutes
using 40x objective and microscope halogen lamp. Developed, looks pretty sharp.

Etched hardmask on A6 in 3% HF for 5 minutes in 65C water bath. Poor photoresist adhesion observed,
hardmask not entirely etched. Baked wafer on hot plate for 5 minutes in hopes of improving adhesion
of remaining resist. Many of the stress patterns disappeared, indicating successful increase in
adhesion. (Photoresist was later found floating in Rinse 1 bath indicating thermal shock from
heated HF to cold rinse as a possible source of adhesion problems.)

Returned A6 to HF for 3 minutes. Hardmask is not quite gone in surrounding areas, needs a little
more time. Etched hardmask for another 3 minutes.

Hardmask still not fully penetrated, but PR is flaking off still. Aborted processing and returned
A6 to gel box for future analysis.

--------------------------------------------------

June 8:

Cleaved several more dies out of Ta2O5-coated wafer. Placed in gel box #5, positions A8 - C2.
Cell B2 was skipped due to poor adhesion.

Prepared 30% KOH / 15% IPA / 55% distilled water etchant:
7.5 ml 99% IPA dissolved in 27.5ml distilled water, followed by 15 g KOH under low heat. Spattering
from stirrer was observed, beaker was removed from heat and spatter removed from hot plate surface.

After cooling, beaker was gently reheated to 65C while stirring slowly.

Etched die B7 for 5 minutes at 65C (expected etch depth 2.5um). Returned to heat at 80C for another
5 mins to ensure a deep etch (expected depth 6.25um, total 8.75 um). No agitation during etch.

Very nice etching observed, snapped a few pictures. Placed water bath on hot plate to preheat before
etching.

Stripped hardmask with 3% HF in 70C water bath for 15 minutes. Some traces of hardmask left in thick
spots but almost entirely removed.

Processing on B7 completed, ready for SEM imaging. Returned to gel tray.

Removed B3-B6 from gel tray (all are similar condition; yellow with a few pinholes) and spin coated
with SP24 resist for ~30 sec. Soft baked at 85C for 30 seconds. Most dies stuck to carrier wafer
and were scratched during removal.

Exposed first die for 30 sec using new 1W UV LED. Developed, severely underexposed. Placed in gel
tray at B3.

Exposed second die for 60 sec. Developed, also underexposed. Placed in gel tray at B4.

Exposed third die for 5 mins. Developed, most fine features obliterated. Looks overexposed. Placed
in gel tray at B5. Might try etching later since the FOV ring is intact.

Exposed fourth die for 2 mins. Looks slightly out of focus; UV method definitely needs some tweaks.

Hard baked B6 at 110C for 60 sec. Wet etched in 3% HF in 75C water bath for 15 minutes. Serious
bubbling of photoresist observed but it stayed mostly intact.

Stripped photoresist in acetone. Die now appears almost blank, looks like hardmask is gone. Returned
B6 to die tray and stopped work for the night.

--------------------------------------------------

June 9:

Placed die A3 (fairly even gold color) in petri dish containing colloidal silica and rubbed against
bottom of dish for 1 minute. Film was slightly abraded but far from removed. Some pinholes grew
in size. Returned to die tray.

Cleaved a small piece of <100> SSP Si from a 2-inch wafer. Cleaned in acetone and IPA, baked on
hot plate at 80C for 2 min.

Prepared a solution of 2 drops Tantalumfilm in 5 drops denatured alcohol; spin coated one drop onto
test wafer at maximum speed. Coating had pinholes due to surface contamination.

Stripped coating by rubbing with denatured alcohol and a Texwipe. Some traces remained around edges
but center was clear. Cleaned wafer in acetone and IPA; baked on hot plate at 110C for 2 min.

Spin coated using 2:5 dilution of Tantalumfilm in denatured alcohol. A deep blue-violet film
resulted, changing to brown as the solvent evaporated. Estimated film thickness 65nm.

Baked in air for 1 hour at 200C. No significant color change. Placed in 2-inch cassette for future
processing.

Diced wafer and placed in die tray at C5 - E5. Initial visual inspection of film quality: some
pinholes but overall quite good.

--------------------------------------------------

June 11:

Etched die D3 in 3% HF for 5 mins at 35C (bath had not been allowed to heat adequately). No etching
observed. Waited for bath to heat to 55C and etched for 5 minutes. Light brown areas of coating were
completely removed; thicker areas remained in part. Returned to die tray.

Spin coated die C8 in SP24 photoresist; soft baked on hot plate for 30 sec at 100C.

Exposed companion cube test mask for 15 minutes using halogen-exposure process and 40x objective.
Did not develop properly for reasons unknown. Stripped resist in acetone and re-coated. Soft baked
for 15 sec.

Exposed 10um pitch ruler as contact mask for 5 mins using 1W UV LED. Developed and hard baked for
90 sec on 110C hot plate.

Etched in 3% HF for 5 mins at ~80C. Photoresist still severely damaged. Stripped in acetone, all
features obliterated. Returned C8 to die tray.

Spin coated C9 in photoresist, soft baked for 30 sec.

Exposed 400um pitch ruler as contact mask for 5 mins using 1W UV LED. Developed, etched for 2 mins
in 3% HF at ~80C. No excessive PR damage observed. Stripped PR in acetone. Unsure if hardmask was
completely etched or not, coating is very thin and hard to observe.

Wet etched in KOH for 2 mins at ~60C. Looks like hardmask was not completely penetrated. Returned
C9 to die tray.
